DELTA SOLVER
============


Upon writing the solver, one issue we needed to address was that of merging
different deltas.
  Indeed, one may make two types of modification (insertion and deletion) at the
same time as another, which may conflict. As a result, when sending the
modifications, it is necessary to modify the incoming and outcoming deltas in
order to avoid loss of consistency between the documents.

When is there a conflict?
-------------------------

Each combination of modification may cause a conflict in certain circumstances.
We will here pinpoint where.
  Simultaneous insertions always cause a conflict, which is easy to resolve.
Indeed, the insertion that happens at an index higher than the other needs to
take the other insertion into account, and shift its own index by the amount of
characters added.
  When a deletion happens at the same time as an insertion, the conflict happens
in a different way with respect to the modification that occurs earlier. If the
deletion happens first, the index of the insertion needs to be subsequently
shifted by the number of deleted characters. Otherwise, the deletion needs to
start at a position that is increased by the amount of characters added to the
left. Watch out for the case where the deletion happens first, but the insertion
happens in between the deleted characters. In such a case, the deletion needs to
be divided into two operations: a first deletion that occurs before the
insertion, and a second deletion that occurs after, and is henceforth shifted to
the right by the amount of characters hereby inserted.
  When two deletions happen simultaneously, we have to look at the one that
happens at the leftmost position. Overlapping deletions will need to make sure
that the overlapping part will not be deleted twice, by removing that part from
the deletion. Afterwards, the second deletion in left-to-right order will start
a bit sooner by being shifted by the amount of deletion that occured in the
first deletion.
